<a href="https://github.com/CyberTrainingUSAF/07-Python-Programming/blob/master/00-Table-of-Contents.md" rel="Return to TOC"> Return to TOC </a>

# Py2 vs Py3 Differences

Python 2 and 3 are similar but **NOT COMPATIBLE!** Python 3 does break compatibility. We will be focusing on Python 2.7.15 but will cover 3.7 along side the entire course. Here are just a few of the major differences:

## Print

Python 3 replaced Python 2's print statement with a print function\(\). While Python 2 will be happy as is or with parantheses... Python 3 will throw an error if the parantheses are not included.

### Python 2

```python
print 'Hello World!' # outputs: Hello World!
mystr = 'Goodbye World!' # Notice we didn't declare a type?

print mystr # outputs: Goodbye World!
print("This works too") # This works too!
```

### Python 3

```python
print("Hello World!") # Hello World!
mystr = 'Goodbye World!' # Again, no type declared. It's automatically determined. 

print(mystr) # Goodbye World!
```

## Integer Division

Python 2 treats numbers without a decimal as integers, whereas Python 3 will treat them as float if it applies. Python 2 Division with integers **truncates** the remainder! Setting one number as a real number will yield the correct result.

### Python 2

```python
print 3/2 # 1
print 3.0/2 # 1.5
```

### Python 3

```python
print 3/2 # 1.5
```

## Other Major Differences

### Unicode:

Python 2 has ASCII **str\(\)** type, separate **unicode\(\)** type.. but no **byte**\(\) type.

Python 3 has Unicode \(**utf-8\)** **str-**ings and two byte classes: **byte and bytearray.**

We will cover both in later lectures.

### Input\(\) vs raw\_input\(\):

* Python 3 **input\(\)** always stores userinput as **str** objects. This is good.
* Python 2 **input\(\)** on the other hand fully evaluates the code the user gives it. **This is dangerous!** This gives the full power of Python to the user... and can be used in a malicious way. Instead, we use **raw\_input\(\)** in Python 2... which converts user input to a string. 

There are more differences between the two major releases. It's encouraged to look up the differences for better understanding.

<a href="https://github.com/CyberTrainingUSAF/07-Python-Programming/blob/master/01_python_features/05_running_python.md" rel="Return to TOC"> Continue to Next Topic </a>
